.\"
.\" @(#)golit.1	2.6 92/04/02 Copyright 1989 Sun Microsystems
.\"
.TH GOLIT 1 "27 May 1991"
.SH NAME
golit \- generate C and OLIT source code for user interface elements described in a GIL file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B golit
[
.BR options
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B golit
reads a Graphical Interface Language (GIL) file created by OpenWindows 
Developer's Guide, a user interface design editor.  As it reads,
.B golit
generates C and OLIT source code for the OpenWindows user
interface elements.  
.LP
Note that GIL files all end with a .G extension.
.B golit
allows you to specify the
.I filename
with or without the extension: both
.I filename.G
and
.I filename
are acceptable names to specify filename.G to
.B golit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a [\-ansi]
Sets
.B golit
so it writes ANSI C.
.B golit
will write the proper function prototypes for all functions.  The resulting
code will work with most ANSI C compilers.
.TP
.B \-s [\-silent]
Sets
.B golit
so it works silently, producing no messages while generating 
source code.
.TP
.B \-p [\-project] myproj
Sets
.B golit
so it will generate code for project
.I myproj
.TP
.B \-m [\-main]
Sets
.B golit
so that it only generates source code for
.I main()
and any common callback functions in the
.I project.c
file.  Only works with the
.I -p
option present.
.TP
.B \-n [\-nomerge]
Prohibits
.B golit
from merging existing and new _stubs.c files.
.TP
.B \-? [\-help]
Print out a help message explaining all
.B golit
options.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I filename_ui.c
The primary source code file, containing C data structures
describing the user interface elements.
.TP
.I filename_ui.h
Contains declarations and C externs.
.TP
.I filename_stubs.c
Contains callback function templates for the
element handlers specified in the user interface.
.TP
.I project.c
If
.B golit
is generating code for a project, this file will contain
the main() plus any callback functions that are common
across interfaces.
.TP
.I project.h
If
.B golit
is generating code for a project, this file will contain
declarations for any callback functions that are common
across interfaces.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
The OpenWindows Developer's Guide User's Manual
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.TP
.B "golit: reading interface.G"
golit is reading the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing interface_ui.c"
golit is generating the _ui.c source code file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing interface_ui.h"
golit is generating the _ui.h source code file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing interface_stubs.c"
golit is generating the _stubs.c source code file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing project.c"
golit is generating the project.c source code file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing project.h"
golit is generating the project.h source code file.
.TP
.B "golit: writing Makefile"
golit is generating a Makefile for the generated interface source code.
.TP
.B "golit: skipping Makefile"
golit detects an existing Makefile in the current directory and so is not 
generating a new Makefile.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find string"
golit can't find a string it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find integer"
golit can't find an integer it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find boolean"
golit can't find a Boolean setting it expects to describe an attribute of a 
user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find keyword"
golit can't find a keyword it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of list"
golit can't find the beginning of a list it expects to describe an attribute 
of a user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of name"
golit can't find the beginning of a name it expects to describe an
attribute of a user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of object"
golit doesn't find an open parenthesis at the beginning of an object
definition in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unexpected end-of-file"
golit encounters a truncated GIL file or a GIL file that doesn't end with 
the proper file structure.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown file format"
golit encounters a GIL file missing the file header information that
identifies it as a GIL file.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown value"
golit finds an attribute in a GIL file that it doesn't recognize, or
encounters an attribute value that is not appropriate for that attribute.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown object"
golit encounters an element that specifies an owner that doesn't exist.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: not a valid C identifier"
golit encounters an object name that is an illegal identifier in C.
.TP
.B "golit: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: WARNING, not a C identifier, ignored"
golit encounters a special handler in quotes and ignores it.
.SH BUGS
.LP
None
