.\"
.\" @(#)gxv++.1	2.6 91/10/15 Copyright 1990 Sun Microsystems
.\"
.TH GXV++ 1 "27 May 1991"
.SH NAME
gxv++ \- generate C++ and XView source code for user interface elements described in a GIL file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gxv++
[
.BR options
]
.I filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B gxv++
reads a Graphical Interface Language (GIL) file created by OpenWindows 
Developer's Guide, a user interface design editor.  As it reads,
.B gxv++
generates C++ and XView source code for the OpenWindows user
interface elements.  
.LP
Note that GIL files all end with a .G extension.
.B gxv++
allows you to specify the
.I filename
with or without the extension: both
.I filename.G
and
.I filename
are acceptable names to specify filename.G to
.B gxv++.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-s [\-silent]
Sets
.B gxv++
so it works silently, producing no messages while generating 
source code.
.TP
.B \-v [\-verbose]
Sets
.B gxv++
so it is verbose, producing a message each time it generates 
source code for a user interface element.
.TP
.B \-n [\-nomerge]
Prohibits
.B gxv++
from merging existing and new _stubs.c files.
.TP
.B \-p [\-project] myproj
Sets
.B gxv++
so it will generate code for project
.I myproj
.TP
.B \-m [\-main]
Sets
.B gxv++
so that it only generates source code for
.I main()
and any common callback functions in the
.I project.c
file.  Only works with the
.I -p
option present.
.TP
.B \-csuffix s
Set the suffix to use for C++ source files [cc].
.TP
.B \-hsuffix s
Set the suffix to use for C++ header files [h].
.TP
.B \-h [\-helpfile]
Sets
.B gxv++
so it generates only the help text file (the
.I .info
file).
.TP
.B \-i [\-i18n]
Sets
.B gxv++
so that is generates code for internationalization.  This option
sets the
.I -g
and
.I -r
options discussed below.
.TP
.B \-g [\-gettext]
Sets
.B gxv++
so that it generates dgettext string wrappers for internationalization.
.TP
.B \-d [\-domain] mydomainname
Sets
.B gxv
so it will use 
.I mydomainname
when generating dgettext string wrappers.  This overrides the default domain
name of 
.I filename_labels.
.TP
.B \-r
Sets
.B gxv++
so that is generates XView XV_USE_DB attributes for internationalization.
.TP
.B \-x [\-xdb]
Sets
.B gxv++
so that it creates an X resource database for internationlization (the
.I .db
file).
.TP
.B \-? [\-help]
Print out a help message explaining all
.B gxv++
options.
.SH "FILES"
.TP
.I filename_ui.cc
The primary source code file, containing member function definitions for
initialization and creation functions of user interface elements.
.TP
.I filename_ui.h
Contains declarations and class definitions for all user
interface elements.
.TP
.I filename_stubs.cc
Contains callback function templates for the
element handlers specified in the user interface.
.TP
.I project.cc
If
.B gxv++
is generating code for a project, this file will contain
the main() plus any callback functions that are common
across interfaces.
.TP
.I project.h
If 
.B gxv++
is generating code for a project, this file will contain
declarations for any callback functions that are common
across interfaces.
.TP
.I filename.info
Contains help text attached to user interface elements.
Makefile, which controls the source code compile.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
The OpenWindows Developer's Guide User's Manual
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.TP
.B "gxv++: reading interface.G"
gxv++ is reading the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing interface_ui.cc"
gxv++ is generating the _ui.cc source code file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing interface_ui.h"
gxv++ is generating the _ui.h source code file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing interface_stubs.cc"
gxv++ is generating the _stubs.cc source code file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing project.cc"
gxv++ is generating the project.cc source code file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing project.h"
gxv++ is generating the project.h source code file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing interface.info"
gxv++ is generating the .info help text file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: writing Makefile"
gxv++ is generating a Makefile for the generated interface source code.
.TP
.B "gxv++: skipping Makefile"
gxv++ detects an existing Makefile in the current directory and so is not 
generating a new Makefile.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find string"
gxv++ can't find a string it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find integer"
gxv++ can't find an integer it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find boolean"
gxv++ can't find a Boolean setting it expects to describe an attribute of a 
user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find keyword"
gxv++ can't find a keyword it expects to describe an attribute of a user
interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of list"
gxv++ can't find the beginning of a list it expects to describe an attribute 
of a user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of name"
gxv++ can't find the beginning of a name it expects to describe an
attribute of a user interface element described in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: cannot find start of object"
gxv++ doesn't find an open parenthesis at the beginning of an object
definition in the GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unexpected end-of-file"
gxv++ encounters a truncated GIL file or a GIL file that doesn't end with 
the proper file structure.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown file format"
gxv++ encounters a GIL file missing the file header information that
identifies it as a GIL file.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown value"
gxv++ finds an attribute in a GIL file that it doesn't recognize, or
encounters an attribute value that is not appropriate for that attribute.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: unknown object"
gxv++ encounters an element that specifies an owner that doesn't exist.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: not a valid C identifier"
gxv++ encounters an object name that is an illegal identifier in C.
.TP
.B "gxv++: object NAME: attribute ATTRIBUTE: WARNING, not a C identifier, ignored"
gxv++ encounters a special handler in quotes and ignores it.
.SH BUGS
.LP
None
