.\" Copyright 1994 NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software
.\" and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies
.\" and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
.\" appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of NEC
.\" Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
.\" distribution of the software without specific, written prior
.\" permission.  NEC Corporation makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as
.\" is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" NEC CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN 
.\" NO EVENT SHALL NEC CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF 
.\" USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR 
.\" OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR 
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"
.\" $Id: RkXfer.man,v 2.1 1994/04/21 00:47:25 kuma Exp $ NEC;
.TH "RKXFER" "3"
.SH "NAME"
\f4RkXfer\f1 \- change the current candidate 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.ft 4
#include <canna/RK.h>
int RkXfer(cxnum, knum)
int cxnum;
int knum;
.ft 1
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\f2RkXfer\f1 sets the candidate with a specified candidate number \f2knum\f1 as the current candidate.  The candidate number must be 0 or greater but less than the highest candidate number in the current clause.  The current clause does not change when a candidate number outside this range is specified.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, this function moves the current candidate in the context and returns the candidate number after the move.  It returns \f40\f1, without doing anything, if it has been run in a nonconversion mode context.
