.\" $Id: fontview.man,v 6.1 1994/05/18 23:25:56 asente Exp $
.TH FONTVIEW 1 "4 Apr 1994" "Adobe Systems"
.SH NAME
fontview \- Display PostScript font viewer
.SH SYNTAX
.B fontview
[
.I toolkit options
] [
.B \-debug
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B fontview
allows the user to view text examples of the available
fonts on a given X server. If the X server specified does
not support the Display PostScript extension, a message is
printed and the program exits.
.LP
As 
.B fontview
starts up, it displays a font selection panel, an area to
display font samples, and a panel to select text demos.
Select a font by choosing a font family, a face, and a size
in the font selection panel and then clicking the Apply
button.
.LP
Six demos have been provided with 
.B fontview.
The demos are Character Set, Quotation, Text Wheel, 
Outline Text, Slanted Text, and Fountain.
Character Set and Quotation output predefined text, 
while the other demos prompt the user for input.
The presence of these demos is not guaranteed, 
and they may change without notice.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Specifying the 
.B \-debug
option opens up a text context on stdout. All PostScript
language code sent to the 
Display PostScript extension will be displayed on the screen. 

.SH BUGS
.LP
Slanted Text and Outline Text should be modifiers rather than demos.

.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Adobe Systems Incorporated

.SH NOTES
.LP
PostScript and Display PostScript are trademarks
of Adobe Systems Incorporated which may be registered
in certain jurisdictions.
.LP
Copyright (c) 1990-1991 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All rights reserved.
