.TH alsatoms 1 "Release 1"  "AF Version 3"
.SH NAME
alsatoms - list interned atoms defined on server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alsatoms
[-options ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Alsatoms
lists the interned atoms.  By default, all atoms starting from 1 (the lowest
atom value defined by the protocol) are listed until unknown atom is found.
If an explicit range is given, \fIalsatoms\fP will try all atoms in the range,
regardless of whether or not any are undefined.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-server \fIaud\fP
This option specifies the AF server to which to connect.
.TP 8
.B \-format \fIstring\fP
This option specifies a \fIprintf\fP-style string used to list each atom
\fI<value,name>\fP pair, printed in that order (\fIvalue\fP is an \fIunsigned
long\fP and \fIname\fP is a \fIchar *\fP).  \fIAlsatoms\fP will supply a
newline at the end of each line.  The default is \fI%ld\\t%s\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-range \fI[low]-[high]\fP
This option specifies the range of atom values to check.  If \fIlow\fP is not
given, a value of 1 assumed.  If \fIhigh\fP is not given, \fIxlsatoms\fP will
stop at the first undefined atom at or above \fIlow\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-name \fIstring\fP
This option specifies the name of an atom to list.  If the atom does not 
exist, a message will be printed on the standard error.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 15
.B AUDIOFILE
specifies the host and server to use.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please submit a problem report to
(af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AF(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab
