.TH XMPHONE X11 "16 April 1991" "Purdue University"
.SH NAME
xmphone \- while you were out phone message pad
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmphone
[
.B \-bcc
] [
.B \-nobcc
] [
.B \-verify
] [
.B \-noverify
] [
.B \-toolkitoptions ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xmphone
is an X client that displays a message template similar to the
``while you were out'' message pads.  The first four lines of the
template are filled in by the user with the email address of the person the
message is for, who the message is from, their affliation, and his or her 
phone number.  The
next section consists of several toggle buttons.  The user selects the
appropriate buttons with the left mouse button.  The last section is a
scrollable message window that can be used to give more specific
information.
.PP
Once the message has been constructed, the
.B Send
selection on the 
.B File
menu either sends the message immediately or prompts for 
verification (see below).  This selection can also be activated through
the use of the accelerator Ctrl-S.
.PP
The
.B Clear
selection of the
.B File
menu clears the template.  This selection can also be activated through the
use of the accelerator Ctrl-C.
.PP
The
.B Quit
selection of the
.B File
menu quits the program.  This selection can also be activated through the use
of the accelerator Ctrl-Q.
.PP
The 
.B Help
button displays a help message.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I Xmphone
accepts all of the standard toolkit command line options along with four 
additional options:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bcc
sends a blind carbon copy of the generated message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-nobcc
suppresses sending a blind carbon copy of the generated message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-verify
the user is prompted to verify that the displayed message should indeed 
be sent.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-noverify
the user is not prompted to verify the message prior to its being sent.
.SH RESOURCES
.I Xmphone
recognizes all of the standard toolkit and widget resources along with four
additional resources:
.PP
.TP 8
.B bcc
Indicates that the user should get a blind carbon copy of the message.  The 
default is ``off''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B verify
Indicates that the user should be prompted to verify the message prior to its
being sent.  The default is ``on''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B numtogs
Indicates the number of toggle buttons that will be included in the middle 
section.  The names of the toggle buttons are tog0 thru tog\fInumtogs\fP.
The default is 7.
.PP
.TP 8
.B msgwidth
Indicates the number of columns the mail message should be word-wrapped to.
The default is 72.
.SH NOTES
Keyboard traversal can be used with this application.
.SH FILES
.ta 3i
.in +.5i
.ti -.5i
/usr/local/X11/lib/X11/app-defaults/XMphone
.in
.SH AUTHOR
Richard Bingle, Computer Science Department, Purdue University.


