.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 The Regents of the University of Texas System.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted provided
.\" that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are duplicated in all
.\" such forms and that any documentation, advertising materials,  and other
.\" materials  related to such  distribution  and use  acknowledge  that the
.\" software  was  developed  by the  University of Texas.  The  name of the
.\" University may not be  used to endorse or promote  products derived from
.\" this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.\"
.\"	%W% %G% (chpc.utexas.edu) %P%
.\"
.\" Include miscellaneous macro definitions.
.\"
.\".so /local/man/tmac/tmac.isc
.\"
.TH Xftp 1 "February 22, 1994"
.SH NAME
.I xftp
\- Athena X interface to ftp.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xftp
[
.I \-options
\&.\|.\|. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xftp
is a X ftp interface.
It allows retrieval or transmission of selected files and
directory trees. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B [\-gateway <host>]
.B [\-animate]
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-gateway\ <host>\fP
The geteway key word allow you to specify a ftp gateway.  The gateway
is assumed to follow the following contention.   The the user name
is of the form user@remote host.
.IP \fb\-animate\fp
The animate option will animate the icon.  This does not work with
all window managers.  If you are running mwm this option is a
noop.
.SH BASIC SCREEN LAYOUT
The screen display for
.I xftp
consists of 5 sections:
a series of menus quit menu, option menu, file options , 
multi file options, and help menu;
a status window;
a remote/local directory window;
a series of buttons login, remote/local directory, command shell,
reconnect, glob, search, search next, and archie; and
a scrolled list window;
.sp
The status window display the current actions and error messages.
.sp
The remote/local directory window display the remote/local name of the 
displayed directory.
.sp
The login button is used to initiate logins.
.sp
The remote/local button toggles between remote and local directory
display's.
.sp
The command shell button is used to bring up a shell window that
contains a command line interface to ftp.
.sp
The glob button brings up a dialog shell that will allow selection of
files based on regular expression or shell globing commands.
.sp
The search button brings up a dialog shell that will search for a
file based on regular expression or shell globing.
.sp
The next button seearch for the next item based on the 
regular expression or shell globing commands set by the search button.
.sp
The reconnect button is used to restart a ftp session after the server
has disconnected.
.sp
The archie button brings up a dialog that can be used to search a archie
database.  This requires that the archie command be some were in the
path when 
.I xftp 
is started.
.sp
All buttons and menu selections are activated with the left mouse button.
.sp
A file can be selected by clicking the left mouse button on the file.
Multi file selection are accomplished by clicking the left mouse
button on the first file and then dragging the mouses over the files
to be selected.  Selected files are displayed in reverse video.
The current selection file has a square border around it.
.sp
The scrolled list window has a popup menu that can be activated by
holding down the right mouse button. You can also use the keyboard
to select the listing options, local/remote display, sort options,
files or directories, and actions to apply to selected files.
.sp
You can doubly click the middle mouse button on a directory
to cd to it.  If you double click the middle mouse button
on a file and it is a remote file then the file will be transferred to the 
local host or if it a local file then it is transferred to the remote host.
.SH FILES
\&.xftp \-  Initiation file for
.I xftp
.
.sp
\&.moxftprc \- a .netrc just for
.I xftp.
.RS 5
It has the same directives as .netrc plus the following three new
directives:
.TP
remote_dir <remote dir>
<remote dir> is the initial remote directory that ftp starts in.
.TP
local_dir <local dir>
<local dir> is the initial local directory that ftp starts in.
.TP
note <text>
This is the note that is displayed in the host list window in the
connection dialog.
.RE
.sp
\&.netrc \-  See ftp(1).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.I ftp 1 
