.\" $Id: calencheck.man,v 2.2 1991/10/30 17:45:48 billr Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright 1989, 1991 by Tektronix, Inc. - All Rights Reserved.
.\" 
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
.\" documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
.\" the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of Tektronix, Inc. not be used in
.\" advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
.\" without specific, written prior permission.
.\" 
.\" TEKTRONIX INCORPORATED MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT THE
.\" SUITABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE FOR ANY PURPOSE.  IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"
.\" WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY.  TEKTRONIX INCORPORATED
.\" DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
.\" WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  IN NO
.\" EVENT SHALL TEKTRONIX INCORPORATED BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL,
.\" INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM
.\" LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE
.\" OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\" 
.\" Author: Bill Randle, Tektronix, Inc. <billr@saab.cna.tek.com>
.\" 
.TH CALENCHECK 1 "29 October 1991"
.SH NAME
calencheck - check for pending appointments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B calencheck
[
.B \-f
.I apptsfile
]
[
.B \-s
.I starthour
]
[
.B \-S
.I stophour
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Calencheck
is a companion program for
.IR calentool (1L).
.I Calencheck
reads the
.I calentool
.B .appointments
file and sends a message to the console approximately ten minutes
before a scheduled appointment is to start.  Its operation is
the same as invoking
.I calentool
with the
.B \-b
option, with the exception that there is no icon to change.
.LP
This program is especially useful for Sun systems with limited
memory or swap space that can not afford to keep
.I calentool
running continously.
It may also be useful if the user is not working at his/her console,
as it does not require the window system to work.
.LP
To enter or edit appointments the
.I calentool
program must still be used.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-f \ apptsfile
Use
.I apptsfile
as the appointments file, rather than the default.
TP
.BI \-s " starthour"
Set the start hour for appointment checking to
.I starthour
hour (0 to 23).
.TP
.BI \-S " stophour"
Set the stop (end) hour for appointment checking to
.I stophour
hour (1 to 24).  The end hour must be greater than the start hour.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
calentool(1L)
.SH AUTHOR
Bill Randle (Tektronix, Inc., billr@saab.CNA.TEK.COM)
