.\" @(#)sidtool.man 1.4 91/08/19
.TH SIDTOOL 6 "11 August 1991"
.SH NAME
sidtool \- a Pacman like game.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "sidtool
[
.B \-d
] [
.B \-maze
.I mazefile
] [
.B \-pause
.I factor
] [
.B \-players
.I players
] [
.B \-retained
] [
.B \-scorefile
.I scorefile
] [
.B \-skill
.I level
] [
.B \-slug
.I factor
] [
.B \-v
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sidtool
is a Pacman like game. It contains a graphical interface for XView.
.LP
.I Sidtool
is played by using the keyboard or the mouse to move the image of the
terminal screen around the maze. Running over (eating) a small dot is worth
10 points. Eating an "idea" spot is worth 50 points. During the game, pictures
of fruit will be displayed in the middle of the maze. These range in value
from 100 to 5000 points depending upon how many screens worth of dots you have
cleared.
.LP
There are four bad guys that are trying to eat you! When you eat an "idea"
spot, it turns the bad guys white. You can then eat them. When they are about
to turn back to bad guys again, they will blink. While they are white or
blinking, they are worth 200, 400, 800 and 1600 points. Avoid the bad guys at
all costs when they are not white or blinking.
.LP
You get three terminal screens per game. An extra screen is awarded at 10000
points.
.LP
You can move the terminal screen around the maze using the hjkl keys (similar
to the vi editor), or with the mouse. To go left, hit 'h'. To go down, hit 'j'.
To go up, hit 'k' and to go right, hit 'l'. Alternatively, you can move the
mouse in the direction you want to go. Sun users will also be able to use the
four arrow keys on the right function pad.
.LP
There are ten skill levels. Level 1 is easy, and level 10 is hard. Level 5 is
the default.
.LP
Initially the game is running in demonstration mode. Click SELECT on the Stop
button, to display all the other controls.
.LP
Click SELECT on the Help button, to get a help screen describing how to play
the game.
.LP
Click SELECT on the Props button, to display a property window allowing you to
change the skill level and the number of players. Don't forget to click SELECT
on the Apply button to apply you new settings.
.LP
Click SELECT on the Scores button, to display a window containing the current
high scores for each level.
.LP
Click SELECT on the Quit button to terminate the game.
.LP
Click SELECT on the New Game button to start a new game. Note that you need to
toggle the Play type from Demo to Game if you want to play a game (as opposed
to running in demonstration mode).
.LP
Click SELECT on the Continue button to continue running. This button toggles
between Continue and Stop, and is very handy for those pesky telephone calls
that always seem to interrupt the game.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Run in demonstration mode only.
.TP
.BI \-maze " mazefile"
Specify a file containing a new maze layout.
.TP
.BI \-pause " factor"
The pause factor (in microseconds) for various operations. The default is
20000.
.TP
.BI \-players " players"
The number of players to play this game of
.I sidtool.
The default is 1.
.TP
.B \-retained
Cause
.I sidtool
to use a retained canvas for the main drawing area. This improves repaint
performance.
.TP
.BI \-score " scorefile"
Specify an alternate high score file to use.
.TP
.BI \-skill " level"
The skill level for this game of
.I sidtool.
The range is 1 (easy) to 10 (hard). The default is 5.
.TP
.BI \-slug " factor"
The main loop slug factor (in milliseconds). This is used to try to get a
realistic speed independent of the speed of the machine that
.I sidtool
is running on. The default is 5.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints the version number and usage message for this release of the
.I sidtool
program.
.SH MAZE LAYOUT
.I Sidtool
has been designed to allow you to specify alternate mazes. The maze layout
should be contained in an ASCII file, and conform to the following
requirements:
.LP 
The maze size is fixed at 26 by 28.
.br
The maze is not allowed to have any dead ends.
.br
All boxes in the maze are defined by paths.
.br
The upper left corner of each box is signified by a small s.
.br
Use the letters r,d,l,u to signify the direction to travel around boxes.
.br
Corners must be signified by changing the letter.
.br
The tunnel start must be signified by a capital S.
.br
The exit box must have the opening at the top.
.br
The ghost number 0 must be started directly above this exit.
.br
The exit should be signified by capital R's.
.br
All ghosts except for one must start in the box.
.br
The amount of time spent in the box is specified by the number which
shows where the ghost goes.
.br
Small dots in the maze are signified by periods '.';
.br
Large dots in the maze are signified by asterisks '*';
.br
Tunnels may be on left and right.
.br
All tunnels must have exits at both sides.
.br
There must be a row around the entire maze defining the border.
.br
All non-tunnel parts of the border must be 'x's
.br
The area in the tunnel in which the ghosts go slowly is defined as the
area between the exit and the first non-space character.  Thus a '.'
causes the ghosts to speed up.
.SH RESOURCES
On startup,
.I sidtool
will use the following X resources. These resources can be placed in all the
normal X places.
.TP 15
.PD 0
.B Resource:
sidtool.players
.TP
.B Values:
Number of players (numeric)
.TP
.B Description
The number of players to play this game of
.I sidtool.
The default is 1.
.sp
.TP
.B Resource:
sidtool.skillLevel
.TP
.B Values:
Skill level (numeric)
.TP
.B Description
The skill level for this game of
.I sidtool.
The range is 1 (easy) to 10 (hard). The default is 5.
.sp
.TP
.B Resource:
sidtool.pauseFactor
.TP
.B Values:
Pause factor (numeric)
.TP
.B Description
The pause factor (in microseconds) for various operations. The default is
20000.
.sp
.TP
.B Resource:
sidtool.slugFactor
.TP
.B Values:
Slug factor (numeric)
.TP
.B Description
The main loop slug factor (in milliseconds). This is used to try to get a
realistic speed independent of the speed of the machine that
.I sidtool
is running on. The default is 5.
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP 15
.B SID_SCORE
An alternate location for the
.I sidtool
high score file.
.SH BUGS
See the TODO file for a list of known problems.
.SH AUTHORS
.br
Brad A. Myers                   Rich Burridge
.br
School of Computer Science      Sun Microsystems Australia,
.br
Carnegie Mellon University      495 Victoria Avenue,
.br
5000 Forbes Avenue              Chatswood, NSW 2067.
.br
Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890      AUSTRALIA.
.br
TEL: (412) 268-5150             TEL: +61 2 413 2666
.br
FAX: (412) 681-5739             FAX: +61 2 413 3869
.br
bam@a.gp.cs.cmu.edu             richb@aus.sun.com
