.TH adial 1 "Release 1"  "AF Version 3"
.SH NAME
adial - X Windows and AF application to dial the phone
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adial
.SH DESCRIPTION
This problem implements an X based phone dialler.
Type a number or name into the entry box and hit return, or select a 
number or name somewhere on the screen and click dial.

The application picks up the telephone using ahs(1) and dials
the phone using aphone(1).  After that, a through audio connection
is made to the local handset or headset using aset(1).
.TP
If the entry box is empty, then the current X selection is used
as the number.  You can type ^U in the entry box to delete whatever
is there.
.TP
The entry (or selection) is translated by aname2num(1) before
being dialled.  See aname2num for details, but briefly,
it can look up names in a personal phone directory (usually ~/.phonelist).
.TP
When the call is finished, click Hangup.
.TP
If you just want to answer the phone, click Pickup.  Then use Hangup to 
disconnect.
.TP
This program is implemented with the Tcl/Tk toolkit, which must be installed 
on your system for the program to run.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
The name to number translation is fairly limited.  You can change it,
but you have to recode name2num.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B AUDIOFILE
to get the default host and server to use.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AF(1), aphone(1), ahs(1), aname2num(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1993-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Larry Stewart, Digital Cambridge Research Lab

