.TH INSTALL_DSTOOL 8 "9 September 1992"
.SH NAME
install_dstool \- install dstool, a dynamical systems analysis and exploration toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install_dstool

.SH USAGE
The 
.B install_dstool 
script uses the following environment variables:
.sp .5

.RS
.B DSTOOL
\- location of the main dstool 
distribution, for example /usr/local/dstool.

.B OPENWINHOME
\- location of the standard Open Windows distribution

.B LD_LIBRARY_PATH
\- colon separated list of directories to be searched at runtime for
dynamic linking; should include $OPENWINHOME/lib.
.RE

The script install_dstool should be run from the directory $DSTOOL/bin.

Steps in installing dstool are:

.RS
.B 1)
Create a subdirectory to hold the dstool software files and 
utilities. Set the environment variable 
.I DSTOOL 
to point to this subdirectory.

.B 2)
Copy the file dstool_1.1.tar to the directory 
.I $DSTOOL.

.B 3)
Type:

.RS 
.B tar -xvf dstool_1.1.tar
.RE

.B 4)
Change to the directory 
.I $DSTOOL/bin
and type

.RS
.B install_dstool

.RE

Answer the modest number of setup questions which follow.
.SH AUTHORS
M. R. Myers, A. Back

Center for Applied Mathematics, Cornell University

Ithaca, New York 14853
.SH FILES
$DSTOOL/bin/install_dstool
.SH BUGS
Pathnames must be fully specified without the use of environment
variables or other csh shorthand.

Please report bugs as well as other comments related to
dstool to 
.I dstool_bugs@macomb.tn.cornell.edu.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B dstool(1), install_dsuser(1)

.B dstool Installation Manual

