.TH CTOW 1
.SH "NAME"
ctow \- Convert Canna text-form dictionary into Wnn text-form dictionary
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "ctow [\-f \fIhinshidata\fP] [\fIcannajisho\fP] [\fIwnnjisho\fP]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
ctow converts the Canna text-form dictionary file into the Wnn 
text-form dictionary.  If all dictionary files are omitted,
this dictionary is input through the standard input.  In this case, the
Wnn dictionary is output to the standard output.  If only one dictionary
file is specified, it is regarded as the one of the Japanes Input System.
In this case, the Wnn dictionary is output from the standard output.  
.SH "OPTIONS"
.IP "\-f \fIhinshidata\fP" 12
The user can add new information about word-type correspondence
between Wnn and Canna.  The following word-type
correspondence information must be described in the \fIhinshidata\fP
file.  Within one line, describe the Wnn word type name and the Canna
word type while delimiting by a space(s)
or tab.
.sp
.nf
  Wnn word type       Canna word type
.br
  Adverb              #F04
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IP "wtoc(1)" 12

.\" Copyright 1994 NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software
.\" and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies
.\" and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
.\" appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of NEC
.\" Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
.\" distribution of the software without specific, written prior
.\" permission.  NEC Corporation makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as
.\" is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" NEC CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN 
.\" NO EVENT SHALL NEC CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF 
.\" USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR 
.\" OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR 
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"
.\" $Id: ctow.man,v 1.4 1994/01/27 09:51:32 kon Exp $
