.\" Copyright (c) 1989 O'Reilly and Associates, Inc.

     The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from
     the X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a
     full and unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free,
     nonexclusive right and license to deal in this software and
     documentation files (the "Software"), including without limitation the
     rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
     and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons who receive
     copies from any such party to do so.  This license includes without
     limitation a license to do the foregoing actions under any patents of
     the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.
.\"
.TH WINMAN 1 "November 15, 1989"
.UC 5
.SH NAME
winman \- simple window manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
winman
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I winman 
is a very simple window manager.  It provides the basic window 
manipulation commands to move, resize, circulate, and iconify window.
It also allows you to designate a keyboard focos window, and
to \fIexec\fR a new xterm.
.LP
.I winman
is designed as an example of Xlib programming, demonstrating some of 
the features of Xlib that are used only by window managers, such as
how to draw rubber-band boxes, perform server grabs, etc.
.LP
.I winman
maps a permanent menu which it refuses to allow the user to hide
(because there is no way to bring it back into view).
.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Nye of O'Reilly and Associates, Inc.
.SH BUGS
One font, one size, no command-line options, no color handling, no 
configurability, etc., etc.  
Also, the menu can be confused and disabled by rapidly clicking 
multiple buttons in several panes in quick succession.  This rarely
occurs in use.
