.TH WONDERLAND 1 "25 April 1994" "Adobe Systems"
.SH NAME
wonderland \- explore the wonders of Display PostScript rendering

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wonderland 
[
.B \-display \fIname\fR
][
.B \-sync
][
.B \-debug
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B wonderland
displays four objects in separate panels: 
a square, a Bezier curve, a text string,
and a scanned image.  Slider controls beneath
each object let you adjust the
color of each object, its size, rotation,
and the gray shade of its background field.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-display " name"
specifies the display on which to open a connection to the Display
PostScript System. If no display is specified, the 
DISPLAY environment variable is used.
.TP
.B \-sync
establishes a synchronous connection with the specified X display.
.TP
.B \-debug
turns on the debugging feature.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Specifying the 
.B \-debug
option opens up a text context on stdout. All PostScript sent to the 
Display PostScript extension will be displayed on the screen. 

.SH FILES
.LP
The scanned image is a PostScript file. The full pathname of
the PostScript file can be controlled by 
setting the Wonderland.imageFile
resource in the applications defaults file
Wonderland.ad.
.LP
If
the pathname in the application defaults file
does not describe a valid PostScript file, 
.B wonderland
searches for a PostScript file in the install directory
$LIBDIR/images/Wonderland.ps, where
$LIBDIR is the X11 library directory. Typically, 
$LIBDIR is /usr/lib/X11, but it may be different
at your site.
.LP
If no valid PostScript file can be found, 
.B wonderland
displays the message \fIImage not installed\fR
in color.

.SH AUTHOR
.LP
Adobe Systems Incorporated

.SH NOTES
.LP
PostScript and Display PostScript are trademarks
of Adobe Systems Incorporated which may be registered
in certain jurisdictions.
.LP
Copyright (c) 1994 Adobe Systems Incorporated.  All rights reserved.

