.TH owplaces 1 "04 Aug 1993"
.SH NAME
owplaces - save information about running X clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B owplaces
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B owplaces
is a script for saving the status of currently running X clients for
future use. The script calls
.B xtoolplaces
included in the Linux xview distribution to do the actual work.
The output from
.B xtoolplaces
is stored as a shell script called
.B .openwin-init
in the users home directory.
.LP
The purpose of this command is to allow the user to customize the desktop
to his wishes. The "Utilities/Save Workspace" menu item in the root menu
invokes this program. The
.B openwin
command will check for the existence of
.B .openwin-init
, and will run it to restore the setup the next time X is started.
This method can be seen as a more "user friendly" alternative
to manually editing
.B .xinitrc
.SH "DESIGNER"
Adam Stein <adam@iset.scan.mc.xerox.com>
.LP
Linux port by <mrb@dtro.e-technik.th-darmstadt.de>
.LP
Minor linux changes by Kenneth Osterberg <lmfken@lmf.ericsson.se>
.SH "AVAILABILITY"
.B owplaces
is part of the Linux port of XView. Get it from
.B tsx-11.mit.edu:/pub/linux/binaries/usr.bin.X11/xview3L*
.SH "BUGS"
.B xtoolplaces
is known to hang when querying the state of some X clients.

XView clients provide information about their position and window sizes etc.
This is not generally true about all X clients, which means that the
current session cannot be restored exactly in most cases. The problem can
be alleviated somewhat by manually editing
.B .openwin-init
to insert additional command line arguments. All such changes will of course
be overwritten the next time this program is run.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xtoolplaces (1)
.BR openwin (1)
