.TH PERF 1 "15 September 1993"
.SH NAME
perf \- report kernel statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B perf
[-a]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-sampletime sec] [-drawline] [-nosmooth] [-drawone] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-noreset] [-scrollback sampled-values] [-columns cols]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-col1 color] [-col2 color] [-col3 color] [-col4 color] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-foreground color] [-background color]
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-cpu] [-disk] [-page] [-swap] [-interrupts] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[-packets] [-errors] [-collisions] [-context] [-load] 
.if n .ti +0.5i
[host]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B perf
is an XView program that reports kernel statistics for a given
.B host
(or for the localhost if no host is specified). The program is
a frontend to the rstatd(8) daemon.
.PP
The displayed window consists of one or more fields, each showing a specified
parameter. The name of the parameter and of its components are shown in the
lower left corner of the field, the maximum value of the visible data in the
lower right corner.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -sampletime sec
Query the rstatd each 
.B sec
seconds for new data. Default is 2.
.TP
.B -drawline
Draw only a line instead of a filled block.
.TP
.B -nosmooth
If the drawing is filled, do not smooth the data.
.TP
.B -drawone
Show only the sum of multiple subvalues like e.g. usr, nice & sys.
This is the default on monochrome diplays.
.TP
.B -noreset
Do not readjust the maximum value shown in the lower right corner.
.TP
.B -scrollback sampled-values
Set the scrollback buffer to
.B sampled-values.
Default is 200, i.e. 20 minutes if sampletime is 2.
The total number of samples stored is field_width_in_pixels + scrollback.
.TP
.B -columns cols
Display the fields in
.B cols
columns. Default is 1.
.TP
.B -col[1-4] color -forground color -background color
The first subvalue is drawn with the color col1, the second with col2 and so on.
.B color
must be of the form 
.B #rrggbb,
where 
.B rr
is the red component,
.B gg
the green and
.B bb
the blue one
(e.g #ff0000 is red).
Defaults:
.if n .ti +0.5i
col1: #000000 (black)
.if n .ti +0.5i
col2: #a0a0a0
.if n .ti +0.5i
col3: #c0c0c0
.if n .ti +0.5i
col3: #e0e0e0
.if n .ti +0.5i
col4: #ffffff (white)
.if n .ti +0.5i
foreground is black and background is white.
.PP
.if n .ti -1i
The following options specify, which statistic values are displayed:
.TP
.B -cpu
Percent of cpu being used.
.TP
.B -disk
Disk transfers per second.
.TP
.B -page
Pages paged per second.
.TP
.B -swap
Pages swapped per second.
.TP
.B -interrupts
Number of device interrupts in a second.
.TP
.B -packets
Network packets per second.
.TP
.B -errors
Errors per second on receiving packets.
.TP
.B -collisions
Collisions per second detected on the network.
.TP
.B -context
Number of context switches per second.
.TP
.B -load
Load average.
.TP
.B -a
All of the above 10 options.

.SH KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
.TP
.B q
Quit the program.
.TP
.B s
Toggle solid drawing.
.TP
.B o
Toggle smooth option.
.TP
.B 1
Toggle the drawone option.
.TP
.B ?
Bring up the properties window.
.TP
.B NL (NewLine)
Restore all scrollback windows to the current values.
.SH Mouse (Pointer device) Usage
.TP
.B Right Mouse Button
You can bring up the
.B properties window
by clicking the right mouse button.
Don't forget to select the 'Apply' button after changing values.
.if n .ti +0.0i
If you click the right mouse button over one of the displayed fields
while pressing the
.B SHIFT
key, you can change values valid only for this field. You can reset
this settings by selecting the 'No special flags' button.
.TP
.B Left Mouse Button
If you click in a field with the left mouse button, the exact value of the 
sample will be displayed in the properties window.
If you drag the field, you can examine the sampled values in the
scrollback history.
.TP
.B Middle Mouse Button
You can scroll more than one field at once by selecting all of them first with
the middle mouse button.
.SH X RESOURCES
.TP
Following X Resources are examined during startup:
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.sampletime
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.drawline
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.nosmooth
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.drawone
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.noreset
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.scrollback
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.columns
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.col1
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.col2
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.col3
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.col4
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.foreground
.if n .ti +0.5i
perf.background
.TP
Note: Options take precedence over X Resources.
.SH FEATURES/BUGS
.PP
The maximum scrollback is limited to 20000 values. This is because by 
initiating a scrollback the whole history will be drawn on a single
pixmap and this can be a memory hog. Besides X limits the size
of a pixmap to 2^15 pixels (if I'm right).
