.TH SPLITWD 1
.SH "NAME"
splitwd \- Collect several text-form dictionary files into a single
file to make a <1 line / 1 word type / 1 candidate> format.
.SH "SYNOPSISS"
.B "splitwd \fItextjisho\fP ..."
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
If the file in which you registered words consists of several
subfiles, it must be converted into a proper format before the word
dictionary is created.  splitword converts such text-form dictionaries
\fItextjisho\fP to make a <1 line / 1 word type / 1 candidate> format.
The result is output to the standard output.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
% splitwd user1.t user2.t | itow
.fi
.sp
Reads text-form dictionaries user1.t and user2.t, then modifies them
into the <1 word type, 1 candidate on 1 line> format.   The contents
are converted into the Wnn textform dictionary, then output to the
standard output.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IP "itow(1)" 12

.\" Copyright 1994 NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan.
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software
.\" and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without
.\" fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies
.\" and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
.\" appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of NEC
.\" Corporation not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
.\" distribution of the software without specific, written prior
.\" permission.  NEC Corporation makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as
.\" is" without express or implied warranty.
.\"
.\" NEC CORPORATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
.\" INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN 
.\" NO EVENT SHALL NEC CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF 
.\" USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR 
.\" OTHER TORTUOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR 
.\" PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. 
.\"
.\" $Id: splitwd.man,v 1.3 1994/01/27 09:59:40 kon Exp $
