.TH COLLECT 1 "October 25, 1990"
.SH NAME
collect \- retrieve assignment files for grading
.SH SYNOPSIS
collect [ options ] [ +n ] [ -n ] [ assignment ] [ student ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a grader command in the Educational On-Line System. It will
retrieve files from the file exchange for the appropriate course and
assignment.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  A
plus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only collect files at least
.B n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only collect files
at most
.B n
days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.

A hyphen followed by a letter is an option.  The first argument that
starts with a digit is an assignment number.  You may retrieve files
for all assignments by leaving out the assignment number.  Any other
argument is a username.  If no usernames are specified on the command
line, all students' files will be retrieved.

.B Collect
will create a directory for each student, if one doesn't already exist,
putting students' turned-in files in each directory.  The file exchange
server marks collected files as TAKEN.

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be retrieved
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not retrieve them.
.TP
.B -preserve
Will not mark files as TAKEN after copying them.  Use
this when collecting files in a temporary place.
.TP
.B -dest <directory>
Student directories are to be placed in the named directory rather than
the current working directory.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH "NOTES"
.PP
If you are not a grader, you are not allowed to list files turned in
by other students.  If it appears that no papers have been turned in,
use fxblanche(1) to see if you are in the grader list.

It is advisable to make the destination directory be an empty
directory.

File modify times are set to be the time the file was turned in, but
these will change when any annotation is done to the file.

If no student username is specified on the command line, all students'
files will be collected and marked TAKEN.  If this is a mistake, use
uncollect(1) to correct it.

.SH SEE ALSO
uncollect(1), return(1), fxblanche(1), fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
