.TH FXBLANCHE 1 "November 2, 1990"
.SH NAME
fxblanche \- examine and modify memberships in fxserver lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fxblanche
course [options]  [ course [options] ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fxblanche
is a tool for maintaining maint, grader, and turnin access for courses
that use the Athena turnin/pickup software.
.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.
.TP
.B -course \fIcourse\ name\fR
Deal with access control lists
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.  For compatibility with
.I blanche,
the -c may be omitted.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.  When displaying membership
of a list, this option causes only usernames to be displayed, not full
names.
.TP
.B -verbose
Turns on printing of status information and display full names.  This
is the default.
.TP
.B \fB-add\ \fIuser\ \fRor\ \fB-a\ \fIuser\fR:
This will add the specified user to the target list.  This option
may be specified multiple times with different users on the same
command line.  The default target list is
.B grader.
.TP
.B \fB-delete\ \fIuser\ \fRor\ \fB-d\ \fIuser\fR:
This will delete the specified user from the target list.  This
option may be specified multiple times with different users on the
same command line.  The default target list is
.B grader.
.TP
.B \fB-members\ \fRor\ \fB-m\fR:
Display the membership of the target list.  This is the default if no
other options are specified.
.TP
.B \fB-list\ \fIacl\ \fRor\ \fB-l\ \fIacl\fR:
Changes the target access control list to
.B acl,
which may be one of maint, grader or turnin.  This option should
appear before any -a or -d options it affects.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If you expect to see a full name and instead see ``(no hesiod info)'',
then you have probably mistyped a username.
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
