.TH FXOPTIONS 1 "October 31, 1990"
.SH NAME
fxoptions \- how to use turnin, pickup, collect, etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
program [ fxoptions ] [ assignment ] [ file or user ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
There are a great many options common to turnin, pickup, collect,
uncollect, return and fxpurge.  If all of these options were listed on
the manual pages for these programs, then users would have to wade
through a lot of material even to do simple things.

Most of these options let you specify a file type.  The file exchange
server (the place where turned-in files are kept) knows the types
listed below.  A user not on the grader list is not allowed to list or
read files other than those of type EXCHANGE or HANDOUT unless that
user is the author of the file.
.TP
TURNEDIN
This is the default type sent by \fIturnin\fR.
.TP
TAKEN
Files are moved to this type when a grader uses \fIcollect\fR.
.TP
GRADED
Files are moved to this type when a grader uses \fIreturn\fR.
.TP
PICKEDUP
Files are moved to this type when a student uses \fIpickup\fR.
.TP
HANDOUT
This type of file can be read by anyone, but written only by graders.
.TP
EXCHANGE
This type of file may be written or read by anyone.
.TP
TEACHERS_ARCHIVE, TEACHERS_HANDOUT
Files of these types may be written and read only by graders.
.SH OPTIONS
A
plus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only deal with files at least
.B n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only deal with files
at most
.B n
days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.  They have no
meaining for \fIturnin\fR.

All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.
.TP
.B -assignment \fIn\fR
Sets the assignment number to \fIn\fR.  This is useful for specifying
multiple assignments on one command line.
.TP
.B -course \fIname\fR
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be retrieved
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -dest \fIdirectory\fR
This option will cause the program to chdir to \fIdirectory\fR before
proceeding.
.TP
.B -file \fIfilename\fR
This is useful for specifying a filename to \fIcollect\fR,
\fIuncollect\fR, \fIreturn\fR, or \fIfxpurge\fR.  These programs don't
require a special option to specify a username.  The -file option is
also useful for telling \fIturnin\fR to give your file a different
name at the file exchange server than it has locally.
.TP
.B -user \fIusername\fR
This is useful for specifying a username to \fIpickup\fR, which doesn't
require a special option to specify a filename.  The -user option may
also be used with \fIturnin\fR, but has no effect if you are not a
grader.  If you are a grader, files turned in will be treated as if
they were turned in by \fIusername\fR.
.TP
.B -owner \fIusername\fR
At first, the owner of a file in the file exchange is the user who
turned it in.  When a grader marks it as TAKEN, that grader becomes
the owner.  Use the -owner option just like the -user option for
pickup.  The -owner option has no effect on \fIturnin\fR.
.TP
.B -subject \fIdescription\fR
In \fIturnin\fR, this option will set the description seen by users of
\fIeos\fR, thus it is most useful when turning in handouts (see -h).
Put quotation marks around multi-word descriptions.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not take any action on them.
.TP
.B -write
This does the opposite of -list.
.TP
.B -preserve
Do not mark files as TAKEN (for \fIcollect\fR) or PICKEDUP (for
\fIpickup\fR).  This is the default when a type is specified other
than the normal one (TURNEDIN for \fIcollect\fR, GRADED for
\fIpickup\fR).
.TP
.B -mark
This does the opposite of -preserve.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.TP
.B -verbose
Turns on printing of status information.  This is the default.
.TP
.B -T
Deal with files of type TURNEDIN.  This is the default for
\fIturnin\fR, \fIcollect\fR and \fIuncollect\fR.
.TP
.B -t
Deal with files of type TAKEN.
.TP
.B -g
Deal with files of type GRADED.  This is the default for \fIreturn\fR
and \fIpickup\fR.  When used with \fIturnin\fR, the next argument must
be the username of the file's author.
.TP
.B -P
Deal with files of type PICKEDUP.  This is the default for \fIfxpurge\fR.
.TP
.B -h
Deal with files of type HANDOUT.
.TP
.B -e
Deal with files of type EXCHANGE.
.TP
.B -A
Deal with files of type TEACHERS_ARCHIVE.
.TP
.B -H
Deal with files of type TEACHERS_HANDOUT.
.TP
.B "-*"
Deal with TYPE_WILDCARD, i.e. all types.  You might want to use this
option with \fIfxpurge\fR, but be careful.  This option must be
enclosed in quotes to protect it from shell globbing...also to protect
you from typing it accidentally.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH SEE ALSO
turinin(1), pickup(1), collect(1), uncollect(1), return(1), fxpurge(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
