.TH FXPURGE 1 "October 24, 1990"
.SH NAME
fxpurge \- remove picked-up files
.SH SYNOPSIS
fxpurge [ options ] [ +n ] [ -n ] [ assignment ] [ student ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a grader command in the Educational On-Line System. It will
remove files from the file exchange that have already been picked up
by students.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  A
plus sign followed by a number n means only remove files at least n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number n means only remove files
at most n days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.

A hyphen followed by a letter is an option.  An argument that starts
with a digit is an assignment number.  You may retrieve files for all
assignments by leaving out the assignment number.  Any other argument
is a username.  If no usernames are specified on the command line, all
students' files will be considered for removal.

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be retrieved
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not remove them.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH SEE ALSO
fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
