.TH PICKUP 1 "October 25, 1990"
.SH NAME
pickup \- retrieve graded assignment files
.SH SYNOPSIS
pickup [ options ] [ +n ] [ -n ] [ assignment ] [ filename ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a student command in the Educational On-Line System. It will
retrieve files from the file exchange for the appropriate course and
assignment.  Some courses may choose not to return graded assignments
electronically; ask your TA how to get graded assignments for your
course.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  A
plus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only pick up files at least
.B n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only pick up files
at most
.B n
days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.

A hyphen followed by a letter is an option.  The first argument that
starts with a digit is an assignment number.  You may retrieve files
for all assignments by leaving out the assignment number.  Any other
argument is a filename.  If no filenames are specified on the command
line, all students' files will be retrieved.  The file exchange server
marks files as PICKEDUP.

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be retrieved
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not retrieve them.
.TP
.B -preserve
Will not mark files as PICKEDUP after copying them.  This is the
default if -e or -h is used.
.TP
.B -dest <directory>
Files are to be placed in the named directory rather than the current
working directory.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.TP
.B -verbose
Turns on printing of status information.  This is the default.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH "NOTES"
.PP

It is advisable to make the destination directory be an empty
directory.

File modify times are set to be the time the file was returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
turnin(1), collect(1), return(1), fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
