.TH RETURN 1 "October 25, 1990"
.SH NAME
return \- return graded files
.SH SYNOPSIS
return [ options ] [ +n ] [ -n ] [ assignment ] [ student ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a grader command in the Educational On-Line System. It will
send graded files to the file exchange for the appropriate course,
assignment and student.  The student may then use pickup(1) to pick
them up.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  A
plus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only return files at least
.B n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only return files
at most
.B n
days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.

An argument that starts with a hyphen is an option.  The first
argument that starts with a digit is an assignment number.  You may
return files for all assignments by leaving out the assignment number.
Any other argument is a username.  If no usernames are specified on
the command line, all students' files will be returned.

.B Return
does not remove the local files which collect placed in the
destination directory.  The collected copies of the files may be
removed with delete(1) or rm(1) if no longer needed.

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be returned
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not return them.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.TP
.B -dest <directory>
This should be the same directory as that given to collect(1).
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH "NOTES"
Sometimes a large number of files may be marked as taken by you.  This
will result in a lot of "No such file or directory" errors, which you
can ignore.

Be sure to use the same options for return that you used for
collect. 
.SH SEE ALSO
collect(1), pickup(1), fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
