.TH TURNIN 1 "October 25, 1990"
.SH NAME
turnin \- send assignment files
.SH SYNOPSIS
turnin [ options ] [ assignment ] file [ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a student command in the Educational On-Line System. It will
send the indicated files to the file exchange for the appropriate course and
assignment.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  An
argument that starts with a hyphen is an option.  The first argument that
starts with a digit is an assignment number.  Any other arument is a
filename.  Action is taken as soon as a filename is found.

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be turned in
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -filename <name>
Causes files to be called <name>
in the course file exchange.  This option normally should not be used
with multiple files.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.TP
.B -verbose
Turns on printing of status information.  This is the default.
.B -s <description>
This option is useful when turning in handouts.  It sets the
description seen by students using eos.
.TP
.B -g <username>
Send as a graded file to the student with the given username.
.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
turnin 5 essay.mss
.fi

Turn in the file essay.mss for assignment 5 in the course specified in
the COURSE environmental variable.  This is the way turnin is normally
used.

.nf
turnin -c 21.780 *.mss -c 1.00 *.c
.fi

Turn in all files ending in .mss for the course 21.780, assignment 1.
Turn in all files ending in .c for the course 1.00, assignment 1.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH SEE ALSO
pickup(1), collect(1), fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
