.TH UNCOLLECT 1 "October 25, 1990"
.SH NAME
uncollect \- restore collected files
.SH SYNOPSIS
uncollect [ options ] [ +n ] [ -n ] [ assignment ] [ student ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a grader command in the Educational On-Line System. It is
useful when a grader has accidentally collected more files than
necessary, marking them TAKEN on the file exchange server and thus
making it difficult for other graders to collect them.

Arguments are parsed in the order they appear on the command line.  A
plus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only uncollect files at least
.B n
days old.  A minus sign followed by a number
.B n
means only uncollect files
at most
.B n
days old.  These may be combined to specify a range.

An argument that starts with a hyphen is an option.  The first
argument that starts with a digit is an assignment number.  You may
uncollect files for all assignments by leaving out the assignment
number.  Any other argument is a username.  If no usernames are
specified on the command line, all students' files will be
uncollected.

.B Uncollect
does not remove the local files which collect placed in the
destination directory.  It merely corrects the state on the file
exchange server to allow other graders to work normally.  The
collected copies of the files should be removed with  delete(1) or
rm(1).

.SH OPTIONS
All options are recognized by their first letter.  For example,
-course is usually abbreviated -c, but -class or -co would also be
recognized, because each starts with the letter c.

Only the most commonly-used options are listed here.  See fxoptions(1)
for a complete list of options.
.TP
.B -course <course name>
Overrides the environmental variable COURSE.  Files will be uncollected
for this course until the end of the command line or until another -c
option is found.
.TP
.B -list
Only list the files; do not uncollect them.
.TP
.B -quiet
Turns off printing of status information.
.TP
.B -verbose
Turns on printing of status information.  This is the default.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
.B COURSE
Specify the default course file exchange.
.TP
.B FXPATH
Specify a colon-separated list of hosts to try as file-exchange
servers, overriding information in hesiod.
.SH "NOTES"
Sometimes a large number of files may be marked as taken by you.  Use
uncollect -l first to see these files, and use fxpurge -t to get rid
of these before uncollecting the ones you want.

Be sure to use the same options for uncollect that you used for
collect. 
.SH SEE ALSO
collect(1), return(1), fxpurge(1), fxoptions(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Bruce R. Lewis (brlewis@ATHENA.MIT.EDU)
