.TH ASET 1 "Release 1"  "AF Version 3"
.SH NAME
aset - set and query audio device settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aset
[-server server] [-device device] [-b] [-input #] [+input #]
[-output #] [+output #] [-ingain #] [-outgain #] [-pass #] [+pass #]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program is used to set and query various audio device settings.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-server \fIserver\fP
Specifies the audio server to use.  If not specified, defaults
to the server specified by the AUDIOFILE environment variable.
.TP
.B \-device \fI#\fP
Specifies which audio device to operate on.  Defaults to device 0.
.TP
.B \q
Queries the server's device options.  For each supported device, shows the 
number of 
inputs/outputs, number of inputs/outputs connected to the phone, sample
type supported, sample rate, number of channels, minimum gain, current
gain, maximum gain, and the state of the passthrough enables.
.TP
.B \-b
Specifies a brief output mode for the \fIq\fP option (no headers are 
displayed).
.TP
.B [+/-]input \fI#\fP
Enables/disables a device's input.
.TP
.B [+/-]output \fI#\fP
Enables/disables a device's output.
.TP
.B [-]ingain \fI#\fP
Sets a device's input gain to the specified value.
.TP
.B [-]outgain \fI#\fP
Sets a device's output gain to the specified value.
.TP
.B [+/-]pass \fI#\fP
Enable or disable passthrough for the device's specified input/output.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B AUDIOFILE
to get the default host and server to use.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AF(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1992-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab
