.ds xL AFlib \- C Language AF Interface
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
.tm \\n%:\\$1:\\$2:\\$3
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de PN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH AFCreatePhoneAC 3 "Release 1" "AF Version 3" 
.SH NAME
\fBAFCreatePhoneAC\fP - create an audio context for a phone device
.SH SYNTAX
\fB#include <AF/AFlib.h>\fP
.LP
AC \fBAFCreatePhoneAC\fP (AFAudioConn \fI*aud\fP, unsigned long \fIvaluemask\fP, 
.br
                                        AFSetACAttributes \fI*attributes\fP)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIaud\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the audio server.
.IP \fIvaluemask\fP 1i
Specifies which attributes in the AC are to be set or modifed.  Its value
is a bitwise inclusive OR of zero or more valid AC component mask bits
(\fBACRecordGain\fP, \fBACPlayGain\fP, \fBACPreemption\fP, 
\fBACStartTimeout\fI, \fBACEndSilence\fP,
\fBACEncodingType\fP, \fBACChannels\fR, and \fBACEndian\fP).
.IP \fIattributes\fP 1i
Provides any values specified by the \fIvaluemask\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PN AFCreatePhoneAC
checks the device list and returns an 
audio context for the phone device if one exists.  If there is no phone device,
it returns NULL.
.SH NOTES
The only phone device supported is DECaudio and DECaudio with the TelePort.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AFChangeACAttributes(3), AFCreateAC(3), AFFreeAC(3), 
.br
AAudioDeviceDescriptor(3), 
.br
AF(1)
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab
