.ds xL AFlib \- C Language AF Interface
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
.tm \\n%:\\$1:\\$2:\\$3
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de PN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH AFDialPhone 3 "Release 1" "AF Version 3" 
.SH NAME
\fBAFDialPhone\fP \- dial a phone device
.SH SYNTAX
\fB#include <AF/AFlib.h>\fP
.br
\fB#include <AF/AFUtils.h>\fP
.LP
int \fBAFDialPhone\fP (AC \fIac\fP, char \fI*dialstring\fP)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIac\fP 1i
\fIac\fP should be an audio context for the phone device.
.IP \fIdialstring\fP 1i
Specifies the number to dial.
The characters, '0' to '9', '#' and '*' as well as the military
keypad characters, 'A' through 'D'.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PN AFDialPhone
uses the phone device to dial the telephone number specified
by \fIdialstring\fP.
.br
.PN AFDialPhone 
returns a negative number to indicate failure of some sort.
.PN AFDialPhone 
returns 0 upon success.
.SH NOTES
The only phone device supported is DECaudio.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AF(1)
.br
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab
