.ds xL AFlib \- C Language AF Interface
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
.tm \\n%:\\$1:\\$2:\\$3
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de PN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH AFOpenAudioConn 3 "Release 1" "AF Version 3" 
.SH NAME
\fBAFOpenAudioConn, AFCloseAudioConn\fP - open or close a connection to the
audio server
.SH SYNTAX
\fB#include <AF/AFlib.h>\fP
.LP
AFAudioConn \fB*AFOpenAudioConn\fP (char \fI*server\fP)
.LP
void \fBAFCloseAudioConn\fP (AFAudioConn \fI*aud\fP)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIserver\fP 1i
Specifies the hardware audio name and the communications domain
to be used. 
If NULL, then the AUDIOFILE or DISPLAY environment variable will
be used.
.IP \fIaud\fP 1i
Specifies a connection to the audio server.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PN AFOpenAudioConn
returns a \fIAFAudioConn\fP structure which serves as the
connection to the audio server and contains all the information
about the audio server.
.PN AFCloseAudioConn 
closes the connection to the audio server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AF(1)
.br

.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab
