.ds xL AFlib \- C Language AF Interface
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.\".ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
.tm \\n%:\\$1:\\$2:\\$3
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de PN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH AFPlaySamples 3 "Release 1" "AF Version 3" 
.SH NAME
\fBAFPlaySamples\fR \- play audio
.SH SYNTAX
\fB#include <AF/AFlib.h>\fP
.br
\fB#include <AF/AFUtils.h>\fP
.LP
ATime \fBAFPlaySamples\fP (AC \fIac\fP, ATime \fIstartTime\fP, 
.br
                                        int \fInbytes\fP, unsigned char \fI*buf\fP)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIac\fP 1i
An audio context containing the audio device that will receive the
play data.
.IP \fIstartTime\fP 1i
\fIstartTime\fP specifies the audio device time at which the first sample
will be played.
.IP \fInbytes\fP 1i
The number of bytes (not samples) of audio data.
.IP \fIbuf\fP 1i
A pointer to the audio sample data.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN AFPlaySamples
function will send the audio data to the server and return when
all data has been successfully placed into server or audio device
internal buffers.
.PN AFPlaySamples 
returns the current time of the audio device when the data has been
accepted by the server.

The encoding type, number of channels, and endian-ness of the play data are 
specified in the audio context. The block size specified by \fInbytes\fR 
must be a unit size of the encoding type.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
AFGetTime(3), AFRecordSamples(3), AFCreateAC(3), AF_samples_sizes(3), 
.br
AAudioDeviceDescriptor(3), AF(1)
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a \fBreproducible\fP bug, please 
submit a problem report to (af-bugs@crl.dec.com).
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990-1994, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIAF(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Digital Cambridge Research Lab

